---
layout: post
title: Entra ID - Licenses
categories: [iam, entraid]
tags: [Identity and Access Management(IAM), Entra ID]
---

## Azure Entra ID Licenses
1. `Azure AD Free`: 
- This is the default edition that comes with a subscription to Microsoft services like Office 365, Dynamics CRM, etc. 
- It includes basic features like user and group management, on-premises directory synchronization, and single sign-on across Azure, Office 365, and many popular SaaS apps.

2. `Azure AD Office 365 Apps`: 
- This edition comes with a subscription to Office 365 Apps and includes features like self-service password change for cloud users, Azure AD Join for Windows 10 devices, and more.

3. `Azure AD Premium P1`: 
- This edition includes all the features of Azure AD Free and Office 365 Apps, plus additional features like self-service password reset for cloud users, group-based access management, conditional access based on group and location, Microsoft Identity Manager, and cloud write-back capabilities.

4. `Azure AD Premium P2`: 
- This edition includes all the features of Azure AD Premium P1, plus additional features like Azure AD Identity Protection to detect potential vulnerabilities and risky accounts, Conditional Access, Just-in-time access, Azure AD Privileged Identity Management to manage, control, and monitor access to important resources, and more.

### Naming Policy for Groups:
- Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) provides a feature called Group Naming Policy which allows you to enforce a consistent naming strategy for groups created by users in your organization.
- This helps to maintain standardized naming conventions and makes it easier to manage and locate groups.
- The Group Naming Policy can include prefixes and/or suffixes.
