---
layout: post
title: Introduction to Single Sign-On (SSO)
categories: [iam, sso]
tags: [IAM, SSO]
---

## Introduction:

- Single Sign-On (SSO) is a mechanism that allows users to authenticate once and gain access to multiple applications or systems without the need to re-enter their credentials. 
It provides a seamless and convenient user experience while improving security and reducing administrative overhead.

- SSO can be implemented using various protocols and technologies:
1. SAML (Security Assertion Markup Language)
2. OAuth
3. OpenID Connect
- These protocols enable the exchange of authentication and authorization information between the identity provider (IdP) and the service provider (SP). 
- The IdP is responsible for authenticating the user, while the SP relies on the IdP's assertion to grant access.

- To implement SSO, organizations typically need to configure an identity provider, integrate it with their applications or systems, and establish trust relationships between the IdP and SPs. 
- This involves setting up federation metadata, configuring trust certificates, and defining attribute mappings.


### Working of an SSO application:

- Single Sign-On (SSO) works by establishing a trust relationship between an identity provider (IdP) and multiple service providers (SPs). 
- Here's a simplified step-by-step process:

1. User Authentication: 
- The user logs into the IdP with their credentials. This is the only time the user needs to enter their credentials during the entire session.

2. Service Request: 
- The user attempts to access a service or application (SP). The SP needs to verify the user's identity, so it sends a request back to the user's system.

3. Identity Verification: 
- The user's system generates an SSO assertion, often in the form of a security token that contains the user's credentials and sends it to the SP. This assertion is created and signed by the IdP.

4. Assertion Validation: 
- The SP receives the SSO assertion, validates it by checking the IdP's signature, and extracts the user's credentials.

5. Access Granted: 
- If the validation is successful, the SP grants access to the user. The user does not need to log in to the SP directly.

- Further Requests: For any further requests to the same or different SPs during the session, steps 2-5 are repeated. 
- However, the user doesn't need to provide their credentials again, as they are stored in the SSO assertion.


#### Benefits:
- Simplifies the login process for users, improving productivity.
- Reduces the risk of lost or forgotten passwords.
- Improves user experience by eliminating the need for multiple passwords.
- Enhances security by enabling centralized control over user authentication.
