---
layout: post
title: Introduction to Ansible
categories: [devops, configuration management, ansible]
tags: [DevOps, Configuration Management, Ansible]
---

## Introduction
- Ansible is an open-source automation tool that simplifies the management and configuration of IT infrastructure. 
- It is widely used in the field of DevOps to automate repetitive tasks, streamline deployments, and ensure consistency across systems.
- With Ansible, you can define your infrastructure as code, allowing you to easily manage and provision servers, networks, and other resources. 
- It follows a declarative approach, where you specify the desired state of your infrastructure, and Ansible takes care of bringing it to that state.


### Key Features:
1. Agentless Architecture:
- Unlike other configuration management tools, Ansible does not require any agents to be installed on the target systems. 
- Instead, it uses SSH or WinRM to connect to the remote hosts and execute tasks, making it lightweight and easy to set up.

2. YAML Configuration
- Ansible uses a simple and human-readable language called YAML (Yet Another Markup Language) to define its playbooks. 

3. Playbooks 
- Playbooks are the heart of Ansible, as they describe the desired state of your infrastructure and the tasks that need to be executed to achieve that state.
- Playbooks can be used to perform a wide range of operations, such as installing packages, configuring services, and managing files.

4. Command-Line Tools
- In addition to playbooks, Ansible provides a set of command-line tools that help you interact with your infrastructure. 
- These tools include `ansible`, which allows you to execute tasks on remote hosts, and `ansible-playbook`, which is used to run playbooks.

5. Inventories
- Ansible also supports the concept of inventories, which are used to define the hosts and groups that Ansible can manage. 
= Inventories can be static, where you manually specify the hosts and groups in a file, or dynamic, where Ansible retrieves the inventory information from external sources like cloud providers or databases.





Building Ansible Inventories
- Sample Inventory
- Dynamic Inventory
- Patterns: Targeting Hosts and Groups
- Connection Methods and Details

Ansible CommandLine Tools
- 

Ansible Playbooks
- 